Over the last few months, I’ve spoken with several recent graduates and fellow engineers who were visibly exhausted by the job application process.

The common pattern? Most of them were stuck in an endless, tedious loop:
1. Prompting ChatGPT to rewrite their bullet points.
2. Copy-pasting the output into Word, Google Docs, or online formatters trying to fix broken spacing and margins.
3. Running the exported PDF through separate ATS scanners to see why it wasn't parsing cleanly.
4. Spending hours manually tweaking formatting just to prevent the resume from spilling onto an awkward 3rd or 4th page.

It was fragmented, time-consuming, and frustrating—and still often resulted in hallucinated buzzwords or formatting glitches that automated ATS parsers choked on.

As an engineer, that felt like a problem worth solving with code: I wanted to build an all-in-one, privacy-first tool that eliminates the multi-tool copy-paste dance entirely—running directly and securely on your own laptop.

It runs completely offline using local, on-device AI models (like Llama 3.2 via Ollama) or lightweight heuristics. Your career data never leaves your machine—no cloud tracking, no external API keys required.

What makes this an end-to-end solution:

• Zero Multi-Tool Friction: Ingests your target job spec, deconstructs the required competencies, reframes your factual achievements, and renders an ATS-tested layout—all in a single unified workflow.

• Zero-Hallucination Ground Truth Invariant: Standard LLM prompts often invent fake tools, companies, or degrees to please the job description. This platform enforces a deterministic 7-check programmatic verification gate—your past employers, dates, and credentials remain 100% truthful.

• Strict 1–2 Page ATS Layout: Built on an ATS-tested 2-column structure that compresses vertical space by ~45%, keeping your resume strictly within 1 to 2 pages with vector-sharp print boundaries.

• Built-in 9-Dimension Resume Score Checker: Automated ATS quality audit evaluating Customization, Measurable Metrics, Action Verbs, and Formatting right in the UI before you submit an application.

• Human-in-the-Loop Mismatch Guard: If your background diverges significantly from a job spec, the system doesn’t quietly fabricate unverified skills. It flags the competency gap honestly and lets you choose how to frame your transferable strengths.

• Real-Time Streaming Reasoning: Watch the engine analyze the job description, cross-reference your achievements, and align metrics in real time via Server-Sent Events (SSE).

Early Results:
A couple of friends and junior engineers tested the early build over the last few weeks. The difference was immediate—no more juggling 4 different tools and ChatGPT tabs, and they started clearing the initial ATS screening barrier to land actual recruiter conversations.

Seeing it genuinely help them gave me the push to open-source the entire project so anyone in the community can use it, inspect the architecture, or contribute to it.

Run it on your laptop in 1 command:
Anyone can clone the repository and launch the full stack locally:

git clone https://github.com/TechieWithBeard/resume-generator.git
cd resume-generator
docker compose up --build

(Or run ./setup.sh natively without Docker!)

GitHub Repository & Full Setup Guide:
https://github.com/TechieWithBeard/resume-generator

If you’re currently on the job hunt or know someone tired of juggling ChatGPT, formatting tools, and ATS checkers, I hope this makes the journey smoother.

Please give it a try, let me know your thoughts, and if you spot any bugs or have ideas for improvements, feel free to raise an issue or submit a PR! Let's build together.

#OpenSource #SoftwareEngineering #WebDevelopment #Angular #Signals #Python #FastAPI #LangChain #LocalLLM #Ollama #ChatGPT #JobSearch #ResumeTips #TechCommunity #DeveloperTools
